Amazon.com (Ukrainian: Амазо́н) is one of the first Internet services focused on the sale of real goods of mass demand, the world's largest company that sells goods and services over the Internet. The company is expanding into e-commerce markets around the world. As of 2017, Amazon has separate retail sites in the United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Canada, Germany, Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Australia, Brazil, Japan, China, India, and Mexico.

In 2018, the Amazon.com brand became the most expensive in the world and was valued at $150 billion.[11] In 2019, the company became the most valuable in the world, surpassing Microsoft. Its price on January 7, 2019 was $797 billion.[12]

It is the world's largest e-commerce marketplace, provider of AI assistants, and cloud computing platform, measured by revenue and market capitalization. It is the second largest employer in the United States and one of the most valuable companies in the world. Amazon is the second largest technology company by revenue.

Amazon was founded by Jeff Bezos on July 5, 1994 in Bellevue, Washington. The company started as an online marketplace for books, but later expanded to sell electronics, software, video games, clothing, furniture, food, toys, and jewelry. In 2015, Amazon surpassed Walmart as the most valuable retailer in the United States by market capitalization. In 2017, Amazon acquired Whole Foods Market for $13.4 billion, which significantly increased Amazon's presence as a retailer. In 2018, Bezos announced that his Amazon Prime two-day delivery service had surpassed 100 million subscribers worldwide.

Amazon distributes download and streaming video, music, audiobooks through its Amazon Prime Video, Amazon Music and Audible. Amazon also has a publishing arm, Amazon Publishing, a film and television studio, Amazon Studios, and a cloud subsidiary, Amazon Web Services. It makes consumer electronics, including Kindle e-readers, Fire tabs, Fire TV and Echo devices. Additionally, Amazon's subsidiaries also include Ring, Twitch.tv, Whole Foods Market, and iMDb. Among various controversies, the company has been criticized for poor working conditions, tax evasion and anti-competitive practices.